# AI Models
There are many ways we could have approached the problem of determining keywords from images, such as image classification or object detection models from organizations such as Ultralytics. The way we chose was to use two different models: an Embedding model, and a Reranking model. Embeddings are, essentially, many-dimensional vectors (sets of numbers in N-dimensional space) representing data along many axes. In our case, we generate embeddings for two types of data: The AAT keywords (text), and the images of art works (images). Embeddings are highly specific to the model that generated them, and thus we had to look for a model that can handle *both* text **and** images.

## Qwen
Qwen is a Chinese organization primarily focusing on the creation of Open-Weight (i.e. availabe for the public to download and run themselves, similar to Open-Source software). They are currently one the leaders in the space, and are known for producing a wide variety of models at various parameter counts. As a result, they are very popular in the local LLM space and are broadly considered to be a strong competitor for Google's Gemma family. As such, we chose Qwen models for both the Embedder and Reranker.

### Qwen 3 VL Embedding
Qwen 3 VL Embedding is the latest in Qwen's Embedding models, and as the VL in its name suggests it has Visual Language capabilities where it handles both Images and Text. Qwen offers two different sizes in their VL Embedding family: 2 Billion Parameters, or 8 Billion Parameters. The 8B model produces higher-quality outputs, but in turn requires much more resources to run and can take longer to process. Embedding models, due to the relative simplicity of their operations, tend to be smaller than traditional LLMs, so even the 2B packs quite a punch. However, due to the importance of the Embedding model, we decided to explore the use of the 8B model.

## Qwen 3 VL Reranker
Much like its Embedding cousin, the Reranker model is the latest of its kind from Qwen, and has Visual Language capabilities to process both images and text. The Reranker model does not directly work with the embedding(s) from its cousin, but instead refines the results produced after the embedding step. It examines each of the chosen terms individually, and determines how much it matches the image. The same sizes of models are available for the Reranker as the Embedding, but due to the nature of its work it takes significantly longer to run through than the Embedding model even at the same size. As such, we have determined that it makes sense to keep the 2B Reranker no matter what, and to even look into quantizations to lower sizes of floating-point numbers for the sake of improving the speed.
